>> Kyle Simpson: I'm glad you came back,
and I didn't scare you away.
So let's talk through the solution for
this exercise.
You may have gotten stuck on a few points,
or
there might have been some
things that were confusing.
So, we'll take our time and make sure that
we talk through each of these little bits.
I'm gonna walk you through these
instructions, and then we'll switch over
and we'll do the code, run the code,
and see those end results.
So, you'll notice on
instruction number one it says,
define an addFavoriteBook function.
Well if you recall from our slides and
you probably saw it several times,
the way we make a function is
to use the function keywords.
So, over here in my exercise file, up here
at the top where that code comment is,
I'm gonna take that one out and
I'm gonna actually define a function.
We use the function keyword, and
I'm gonna say addFavoriteBook,
and then we need to receive some input,
it needs to receive an input,
a single parameter called bookName.
So I'm gonna name it bookName right inside
those parentheses, that's the parameter.
Now, just for
the purposes of us testing, let's just
print out whatever has been passed in.
So I'm just gonna say
console.log bookName, and
then if we copy this code over into one of
our run environments, I'm gonna use RunJS.
If I run that code,
you'll notice that it will print out all
five of them because each time
addFavoriteBook was called,
it's receiving bookName it's passed in and
then we're printing it out.
Okay, now the second item in
the instruction says if the provided
book name string does not have
the word Great in it with capital G,
then that's when you add it
to the favorite books array.
And there's several key hints
here that you wanna look at.
Number one, the hint says, if we wanna
figure out whether one sub string is
in a different string, then we say
someString.includes in the anotherString.
And that'll tell us if another string is
inside of some string somewhere, okay.
So, that's the first thing that we
wanna do, we wanna make a decision and
remember we talked about decisions,
we can use the if statement.
So we're gonna say if, and the thing that
we're looking for is to see if bookName,
includes, and then the thing we
wanna check for is whether or
not it includes the word Great, and
that's when we're gonna do something.
But actually this is backwards
because the instructions say,
only if it doesn't include.
So we want to basically end up
filtering out the ones that have Great,
we don't wanna do it
if it doesn't include.
You might remember from our
discussion of operations,
that the exclamation mark is how we
negate or we complement a boolean value.
So if this one would have returned true,
we want it to be false, and
if it would have returned false,
we wanted to return true.
So we're gonna flip it by putting
the exclamation mark there.
So now I'm just gonna do that
console log statement again,
we'll just make sure this time,
that we're only
printing out the three book names
that don't have the word Great in it.
So we'll switch back over to our run
environment, we'll run this, and
we should see only the three book
names then we've filtered out,
we have not printed out Great Gatsby or
Great Expectations.
Okay, so that allows us to see we
validated that our if statement decision
logic, is working correctly.
>> Kyle Simpson: We can do the same thing
in a Chrome console as we're doing in
RunJS.
All right now, the item says that we
should be adding it to the favoriteBooks
array, not just printing it out, but
adding it to the favoriteBooks array.
And here, this third hint tells us
how to put something into array,
we give the array name and
then we say .push,
and we give it the value
that we want to push in.
So let's do that,
instead of console.log, let's actually
just say favoriteBooks.push,
and what we want to push in,
is the book name that's been passed to us,
so bookName.
Now, after all five of those have
been called, then the favorite books
array should have only the three in
it that don't have the great keyword.
So we could quickly check
whether that was true by just
printing out the contents
of favorite books.
After we've made these five calls,
favorite books should have all
three of them contained in it.
Let's try that, I'll copy that code
come back over here to RunJS, and when I
run this code we should see it print
an array with those three strings in it.
And sure enough now we see an array, with
those three strings having been included.
>> Kyle Simpson: Okay,
back to the instructions.
Next item in our instruction said we
wanna make a printFavoriteBooks function.
We already know how to do functions,
that's just the function keyword.
This one's not gonna receive any
parameters, so let's try our hand at that.
In this TODO statement, in place of
the TODO statement we're gonna write
a function called printFavoriteBooks.
And it doesn't receive any parameters, so
we just do that open close parentheses.
Now I don't wanna forget to
take this console.log out, so
I'll remember to take that one out.
We have our printFavoriteBooks function,
and
this is going to be called after
we've done the addFavoriteBooks.
So let's do that down here,
let's actually call printFavoriteBooks.
And you remember that the way that
we execute a function, is we put
a parentheses right after the variable
name, that’s how we execute a function.
Now the instructions tell us what
printFavoriteBooks needs to do.
It first needs to print out a message,
that says Favorite Books: and
then it’s gonna have a number for
how many are in that favorite books array.
All right, so
let's do a console.log statement, and
we're going to be printing something out.
And I'm gonna use, because the hints tell
us to use the back-tick kind of string,
that will allow us to include
a value inside of another string.
So let's use back-tick, and
then inside of this string,
we're gonna say,
Favorite Books, with a colon.
And then the way that we add
a value inside of a string,
the way we drop that value in,
is we do the ${} delimiting.
And then inside of it is the expression,
where we want to print out which,
what is the number of the books?
And the way we know
the number of the books,
is gonna be the length of this array.
So we wanna say, FavoriteBooks.length,
that's gonna be the message
that we wanna print out.
Let's just test this code as is,
and make sure it should print out,
FavoriteBooks: 3, whenever we execute it.
So I'll come over here,
and execute our code, and
sure enough we get the message,
FavoriteBooks:3.
Okay, now, back to the instructions.
It says, Finally, printFavoriteBooks()
should loop through the FavoriteBooks
array, there's our keyword,
we're gonna be using a loop.
It's gonna loop through that favoriteBooks
array, and print out each value.
And we wanna make sure we've already
done this part, we are calling
the printFavoriteBooks function, and
it gives us a hint here which is critical.
It says, use the for of form,
remember in the slides, a few slides back.
There were two ways of doing a for
loop, one was where we were
counting with an i variable.
And one was where we were just
getting all the values in an array.
It's gonna be easier for our purposes
to use this second form of that,
which was this for of loop.
So let's do that, let's go back to
our printFavoriteBooks() function,
and we'll type in for, and
we need to declare a variable.
So we'll say, let, and
we’re using let here just so
we add the variable only in the for
loop instead of the function.
Either way, you could’ve used a var if
you prefer, but I’m gonna use a let.
We’re gonna say for let, and
then we wanna say bookName of,
and then the thing that we’re gonna get
all the values out of is, favoriteBooks.
That's our array, so we're gonna say for,
let bookName of favoriteBooks.
And then we're gonna do console.log,
bookName.
>> Kyle Simpson: Now, if we test this,
we're expecting it to first
print out favoriteBooks: 3.
And then one line at a time, we're
expecting it to print out only the three
books that are in our favoriteBooks array.
If we've done our jobs correctly,
this application should work now.
So I'll switch over,
one last time, to RunJS.
And we will run this code, and
there we go, it says Favorite Books: 3.
Let me move it over so
it's a little easier to see.
Favorite Books: 3, A Song of Ice and Fire,
Crime & Punishment, and You Don't Know JS.
Those are clearly the three best books,
that have ever been written.
All right, so
hopefully you're feeling a lot more
comfortable with some of these
basic programming principles.
If things were a little bit confusing for
you, that's okay.
Try this again,
try the exercise from scratch,
just start over from the empty file and
try going through the instructions.
Maybe try, if you were able
to get the exercise working
up to the point of the solution,
maybe try adding something,
maybe try add some more books, or
add some more calls to add favorite books.
Or maybe try filtering out a different
value from the book name, or
something like that,
play around with this code a little bit.
Don't be afraid to actually
write some JavaScript,
because there really is no better way
of learning how to code JavaScript.